Now that we've finished building our ReACT project monster's Rolodex we are actually going to start
building our final project which is an fully fleshed out e-commerce platform.
We're going to expand upon all of the topics that we covered today doing this monster's Rolodex but
we're also going to use more patterns and more of the fundamental libraries in the react ecosystem that
large companies are already using to build their web applications today.
So let's take a look at what we're actually going to build.
This is our final e-commerce project.
We're gonna have navigation and routing that takes us to different pages of categories of items and
from these items we're actually going to be able to add them to our cart and from our car.
We're actually going to see these things directly update and from this car we're gonna be able to checkout
increase or decrease these items again and see the live changes in both our checkout page and our car
page remove items and actually integrate with a stripe API so that we can handle payments.
Now this is actually going to be a test version of Stripe because we don't actually have items to ship
and we don't actually want to process real payments because this is just a portfolio project.
But the matter of switching it is simply a change in the actual stripe website.
You're going to actually learn what it is to actually build using the stripe API and beyond that.
We're also going to integrate with firebase to handle our authentication and our storage.
So with firebase we're actually going to be able to authorize our users using Google so that we can
sign in with our Google accounts and once we sign in we're also going to provide a sign feature and
a sign up and sign in with email and password feature.
So it's gonna be a really fleshed out fully complete e-commerce platform just like you would build for
real e-commerce company now before we begin.
There are a couple concepts that I want us to go over with react.
So we have a better understanding of what it is that react is actually doing for us.
So in order to begin we're gonna have to go to our original monster's Rolodex application and now we're
going to look at our actual developer tools and we're gonna look at our dorm.
So we know that our dorm is our representation of our actual application inside of our app component
that we built.
We have that H1.
We have that input and we have this card list.
These are all elements that are children of this app and are inside of our card list.
Is those children these card containers right.
If we were to actually look at this from a very basic representation we'll see that it actually looks
like this tree right.
This is our app that was that H1 title this was that search box.
This is the card list and that card list has children which are these card component nodes.
So this tree actually represents our actual dong.
However in order for our actual DOM to update any of these elements it's actually extremely slow.
So it takes the DOM a lot of energy to update any of these elements.
Now what react does is it copies this actual DOM tree and it makes it in JavaScript just like we see
when we write RJ ASX RJ OSX also is just JavaScript that returns what looks like these HCM Al elements
so what react will do is it'll completely copy this actual DOM except this it will call the virtual
dot and the virtual DOM is as I mentioned just a complete copy of this actual DOM but in JavaScript
now in our application whenever we update any of the data that ends up being rendered in our components
let's say our fifth monsters email or its display name changes well react doesn't actually want to re
render the entire Dom it only wants to affect the thing that matters which is this note.
So what we're going to see happen is react actually copies this virtual DOM again except this time it's
going to apply the changes to the data that got updated so the monster number five it's going to change
that the name it's gonna change the email appellate court to how however we actually changed it and
then it's going to apply those changes to this virtual DOM and see what that element that got affected
would be.
So it would end up actually being this element so it'll actually make the change here and then what
it will do is it will compare this new virtual DOM.
So the old Dom and then it will see that this is actually different now.
Right.
This and this are different.
So then it will know.
OK.
Let's actually apply the DOM changes to this element and when it does that it's actually way more performance
because it doesn't have to mess around with the DRM unless it knows exactly what elements it needs to
update.
And that's why react so fast because of its ability to build out these virtual dorms and then compare
and contrast against the real dorm to see what's changed and then make the appropriate updates to exactly
the right note.
Now can we actually see this in action.
Well we definitely can.
What we've got to do first is we've got to go back to our monsters application and we're going to make
a couple of minor changes first.
So in order to see this in action we're actually going to add a new field to our state our data and
we're going to call it our title and what we're going to do is whenever that user search happens we're
actually going to also have it so that our tidal updates with whatever it is that are user typed in
so instead of filtering out our monsters what we're gonna do is we're just going to display the monsters
right.
We don't want that search feature for now.
We're also going to add in this title field that we've just added to our state and instead of monsters
Rolodex I want to show the title.
So what happens now is that whenever we type we'll see this title right.
We'll see our title update.
Now if we enable inside of our additional rules let's just add actually our rendering what we'll see.
If we enable paint is that this Web site will flash green in all the areas that are getting updated
whenever dom elements are updating it will change it.
So if we refresh we'll see the whole page fostering because it's mounting and rendering everything for
the first time.
Now let's say we actually start typing in this well when we type this we'll see that only this title
is getting updated.
Nothing else is getting re rendered because react knows that the only thing that needs to update is
this title.
This title node is the only component in our dorm that needs to be re rendered.
It doesn't touch anything else and that's what is so great about reacts.
Virtual DOM and it's efficiency when it comes to deciding what.
In our dorm to re render.
Now let's go back to our application and let's undo this right.
So we get our app back to the state that it was before.
So let's undo that let's remove this title field.
Now we know that we have our monsters array on the state of our app and we passed that after we've modified
it right after we create a new array.
But based off of this data array using our search field to filter out the monsters that don't match
and we pass that into the card list and then our card list component is the one that will then map out
using the data that got passed into it the new cards.
Right.
So if we were to look at this thing again except let's just focus on our application.
Right that monsters array sits at our app.
It gets passed in the card list and then it generates these components.
Right.
And these end up being all of our actual components that we view.
This is actually all of our views what react does when it's actually rendering out the application is
that react is based off of this data that we saw.
Right.
The data from the state of our app component the monsters array gets passed to this cordless component
which then renders out these components.
These card components if for example whenever we type in our search field and we update and change that
filtered monsters array.
Right.
That gets passed into our card list then react actually re renders this entire tree because it knows
that the data at this point has changed.
So if it's passing that data down to its children the children are what is going to need to be re rendered
how ever if we can imagine that we moved the data of our monsters and our filtered monsters all of this
into the actual cordless component instead.
So if we took all this and we moved it into here so that the data actually sits at the card list level
well what happens if we were to do that same thing if we were to modify that array at this level right
instead of it's sitting here it's now here and then we modify that array.
Well these children would still get re rendered.
Right.
React would re render any part of the tree below this note because the data that's used to generate
these views actually sits here but anything above it the parent our app and then the siblings right.
The search box and the title would not re render react has no reason to render anything above this node
because the data only affects the children below this note.
This concept is called Unit directional data flow.
So in react that idea of building views from data is actually very key as to why react so predictable.
So here is actually an quick image of what that looks like.
That data is in our state right.
Our monsters array our search field all these things react uses that data to build out the views as
we saw in our card list example right where we mapped over that monster's data to build out these card
components.
And then if the user does anything or the application does something from the viewpoint right it'll
trigger these actions that update the state.
Now this action we can see it as something like when we type in that search field when we type in that
search field that action is trying to update the state right.
The data that we have it updates the search field and then that search field updates that filtered monsters
array and then that again gets passed and used to generate the views.
Now that data always flows in this direction it always goes from the state of our data to building out
the views and then from the views there might be interactions that make actions that will update the
data.
Again this idea of unit directional data flow is what makes React code so predictable and less prone
to errors because of this flow of data that always goes in this one direction we can anticipate if something
doesn't match if our views don't match.
We know that there's got to be only one place that's causing these issues to be to come from.
That's why you need directional data flow and react is so awesome.
Now I know this might still be confusing because it's so conceptual but I just want you to keep this
in mind before we start building out our applications it'll all make sense I promise.
Now let's get started on actually building out our e-commerce platform.